The company DriverPass is building an online, and onsite, driver education program. They have identified a growing need for proper driver training in the country.  They need a system built that is accessible online to users on a variety of platforms and devices. They also need this system to run and work properly within their local office, where they provide in-person driving lessons to customers trying to obtain their driver's licenses.
In this project, I feel that I was able to add a lot of valuable information to the Business Requirements Document, as well as design UML diagrams that were consistent with the company's needs. In past classes, I have created smaller scale UML diagrams, but looking back now I see that I was incorrectly capturing the functionality of the project. In this class, I spent a lot of time learning the purpose of each symbol and how to properly capture the direction and flow of data using lines and arrows. I feel that my diagraming capabilities grew exponentially in this class and I greatly enjoyed the creative freedom while designing them.
One area that I did struggle with this term is defining the difference between Functional and Non-Functional Requirements. It seems there is a thin line between the two and in several instances I categorized them incorrectly. Obviously, this will be a very important topic moving forward in the program. Next time I encounter these requirements, I will do much more research into each category to establish any clear distinctions.
To interpret the users needs, I started by reading the business meeting documentation and highlighting everything that the client wanted the system to accomplish. I then began to identify the users of the system and document what functionality they will have within the system. After that, I relied heavily on diagraming everything involved in the project. Evey user of the system is important because they are the people who will be interacting and benefitting from the system. The owner, IT administrators, and other employees of the company need a system to perform well so that they can reach their target audience and generate a profit. The customers won’t use a system that is unreliable or unsecure. It is extremely important to keep them happy or the system will be an unused wasteland.
My approach to designing software starts with trying to accumulate as much knowledge about the system as possible and then breaking it into smaller interrelated parts. Although having capable software is helpful in this department, I spend a lot of time with a pen and paper. I find writing and diagraming things in person helps me tremendously with the process. After learning how to properly use UML diagrams in this class, I foresee myself utilizing them a lot in the future.
